---
layout: post
title:  "Vegan"
permalink: "/blog/vegan/"
date:   2016-11-6 13:00:00 +0000
categories: blog
author: Adam Moss
comments: true
body_class: blog
reading-time: 10 mins
---

There are times in life where the way you view the world can be completely turned upside down. There are times where you have to take a step back and analyse what impact your actions have on what's going on around you, and you have decide whether you feel comfortable with yourself.

Believe me, it wasn't easy when I learned the truth behind how the industries behind animal production operate, I wasn't able to make a snap decision and turn my back on how I lived my life forever. Everything I had learned in life up until that point was that animals are to be viewed as commodities that we have complete control over. We are top of the "food chain" and we do what we want. We don't ask questions because "that's the way it is". Besides the animals are "looked after" up until the point they are slaughtered, etc etc...

To drop everything I knew and understood about the way humans behaved on this planet and how we treat animals was a period of massive discomfort for me. I knew things probably could be better but I never realised what it was that I was contributing to. No one likes being told they're wrong or ignorant but the truth hit me like a tonne of bricks and I knew there was no going back.

I'm the kind of person who I like to think sticks very strongly to his principles and will very rarely allow them to be abandoned, even temporarily. It means that despite how much I love the taste of a pulled pork sandwich, steak & chips, or a freshly baked camembert, I won't allow my morals to be upended. I now realise that some things in life are more important than the taste of flesh or another animal's breastmilk.

The majority of people who become vegan do it for ethical reasons, environmental reasons or health reasons - most often a combination of all 3. So I did to a certain extent. But my main reason is actually much simpler than the sum of its parts. I went vegan because it is simply the right thing to do. I knew it as soon as I was exposed to the injustices of farming and saw how the industry is literally plaguing the planet like a cancer. I couldn't knowingly go on supporting something that I knew to be fundamentally wrong and ultimately, completely unnecessary.

Then, once I discovered all the health benefits of a (correctly-executed) plant-based diet it was the final nail in the carnist coffin.
